Think about how busy your hands are throughout the day.
Is it really necessary to use all five fingers when gripping or squeezing?
Well let’s try a demonstration to find out.
Remember, go slow and steady and avoid strain and pain.
First, put your preferred arm out in the thumb up,
wrist straight and fingers relaxed position.
With the other hand grasp the muscles in the middle of your forearm.
Relax your index finger and thumb
and squeeze with the middle, ring and little finger.
Go ahead and squeeze a few times.
Do you feel the muscles in your forearm working?
Now relax your fingers
then grip with your index finger and thumb.
What muscles are working for you now?
This is why we get better reults for the same effort
just by relaxing your index finger.